[Workers]: Add tutorial to use Prisma Postgres (#19963)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/tutorials/using-prisma-postgres-with-workers/index.mdx

---
updated: 2025-02-12
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Set up and use a Prisma Postgres database
languages:
  - TypeScript
  - SQL
  - Prisma ORM
  - PostgreSQL
---

> [Prisma Postgres](https://www.prisma.io/postgres) is a managed, serverless PostgreSQL database built on unikernels. It supports features like connection pooling, caching, real-time subscriptions, and query optimization recommendations. A generous free tier is available for initial development, testing and hobby projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Prisma Postgres](https://www.prisma.io/postgres) is a managed, serverless PostgreSQL database. It supports features like connection pooling, caching, real-time subscriptions, and query optimization recommendations. 
```

Reviewer 2: +1 to this change. Don't want to come of as markety

In this tutorial, you will learn how to:

- Set up a Cloudflare Workers project with [Prisma ORM](https://www.prisma.io/docs).
- Create a Prisma Postgres instance from the Prisma CLI.
- Model data and run migrations with Prisma Postgres.
- Query the database from Workers.
- Deploy the Worker to Cloudflare.

## Prerequisites

To follow this guide, ensure you have the following:

- Node.js `v18.18` or higher installed.
- An active [Cloudflare account](https://dash.cloudflare.com/).
- A basic familiarity with installing and using command-line interface (CLI) applications.

## 1. Create a new Worker project

Begin by using [C3](/pages/get-started/c3/) to create a Worker project in the command line:

```sh
npm create cloudflare@latest prisma-postgres-worker -- --type=hello-world --ts=true --git=true --deploy=false
```

Then navigate into your project:

```sh
cd ./prisma-postgres-worker
```

Your initial `src/index.ts` file currently contains a simple request handler:

```ts title="src/index.ts"
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		return new Response("Hello World!");
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

## 2. Setup Prisma in your project

> In this step, we set up Prisma ORM with a Prisma Postgres database using the CLI. Then we'll create and execute helper scripts to create tables in our database and generate a Prisma client to query it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this step, you will set up Prisma ORM with a Prisma Postgres database using the CLI. Then you will create and execute helper scripts to create tables in the database and generate a Prisma client to query it.
```

### 2.1. Install required dependencies

Install Prisma CLI as a dev dependency:

```sh
npm install prisma --save-dev
```

> Install the [Prisma Accelerate client extension](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@prisma/extension-accelerate) as that's required for Prisma Postgres:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install the [Prisma Accelerate client extension](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@prisma/extension-accelerate) as it is required for Prisma Postgres:
```

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

datasource db {
  provider = "postgresql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

model User {
  id  Int @id @default(autoincrement())
  email String
	name 	String
}
```

Next, add the following helper scripts to the `scripts` section of your `package.json`:

```json title="package.json"
"scripts": {
  "migrate": "dotenv -e .dev.vars -- npx prisma migrate dev",
	"generate": "dotenv -e .dev.vars -- npx prisma generate --no-engine",
	"studio": "dotenv -e .dev.vars -- npx prisma studio",
  // Additional worker scripts...
}
```

Run the migration script to apply changes to the database:

```sh
npm run migrate
```

When prompted, provide a name for the migration (e.g., `init`).

After these steps are complete, Prisma ORM is fully set up and connected to your Prisma Postgres database.

## 3. Develop the application

Modify the `src/index.ts` file and replace its contents with the following code:

```ts title="src/index.ts"
import { PrismaClient } from "@prisma/client/edge";
import { withAccelerate } from "@prisma/extension-accelerate";

export interface Env {
	DATABASE_URL: string;
}

export default {

> 	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
> 		const prisma = new PrismaClient({
> 			datasourceUrl: env.DATABASE_URL,
> 		}).$extends(withAccelerate());

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		const path = (new URL(request.url)).pathname;
		if(path === "/favicon.ico") return new Response('Resource not found', {
			status: 404,
			headers: {
				'Content-Type': 'text/plain'
			}
		});
		
		const prisma = new PrismaClient({
			datasourceUrl: env.DATABASE_URL,
		}).$extends(withAccelerate());
```

Reviewer: It's incrementing twice due to favicon fetch, might be worth catching and returning 404 so it increments by 1 instead of 2 on page load.

		const user = await prisma.user.create({
			data: {
				email: `Jon${Math.ceil(Math.random() * 1000)}@gmail.com`,
				name: "Jon Doe",
			},
		});

		const userCount = await prisma.user.count();

		return new Response(`\
Created new user: ${user.name} (${user.email}).
Number of users in the database: ${userCount}.
		`);
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

Run the development server:

```sh
npm run dev
```

> Visit [`https://localhost:8787`](https://localhost:8787) to see your app in action.

Reviewer 2: nit: I'd tell them what they should see here if it is successful

```sh
cd ./prisma-postgres-worker
```

Your initial `src/index.ts` file currently contains a simple request handler:

```ts title="src/index.ts"
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		return new Response("Hello World!");
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

## 2. Setup Prisma in your project

In this step, you will set up Prisma ORM with a Prisma Postgres database using the CLI. Then you will create and execute helper scripts to create tables in the database and generate a Prisma client to query it.

### 2.1. Install required dependencies

Install Prisma CLI as a dev dependency:

```sh
npm install prisma --save-dev
```

Install the [Prisma Accelerate client extension](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@prisma/extension-accelerate) as it is required for Prisma Postgres:

```sh
npm install @prisma/extension-accelerate
```

Install the [`dotenv-cli` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv-cli) to load environment variables from `.dev.vars`:

```sh
npm install dotenv-cli --save-dev
```

### 2.2. Create a Prisma Postgres database and initialize Prisma

Initialize Prisma in your application:

```sh
npx prisma@latest init --db
```

> If you don't have a [Prisma Data Platform](https://console.prisma.io/) account yet, or if you are not logged in, the command will prompt you to log in using one of the available authentication providers. A browser window will open so you can log in or create an account. Return to the CLI after you have completed this step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you do not have a [Prisma Data Platform](https://console.prisma.io/) account yet, or if you are not logged in, the command will prompt you to log in using one of the available authentication providers. A browser window will open so you can log in or create an account. Return to the CLI after you have completed this step.
```

Once logged in (or if you were already logged in), the CLI will prompt you to select a project name and a database region.

> Once the command has terminated, it has created:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the command has terminated, it will have created:
```

- A project in your [Platform Console](https://console.prisma.io/) containing a Prisma Postgres database instance.
- A `prisma` folder containing `schema.prisma`, where you will define your database schema.
- An `.env` file in the project root, which will contain the Prisma Postgres database url `DATABASE_URL=<your-prisma-postgres-database-url>`.

> Note that Cloudflare Workers don't support `.env` files. You will use a file called `.dev.vars` instead of the `.env` file that was just created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that Cloudflare Workers do not support `.env` files. You will use a file called `.dev.vars` instead of the `.env` file that was just created.
```

### 2.3. Prepare environment variables

Rename the `.env` file in the root of your application to `.dev.vars` file:

```sh
mv .env .dev.vars
```

### 2.4. Apply database schema changes

Open the `schema.prisma` file in the `prisma` folder and add the following `User` model to your database:

```prisma title="prisma/schema.prisma"
generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}

datasource db {
  provider = "postgresql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}

model User {
  id  Int @id @default(autoincrement())
  email String
	name 	String
}
```

Next, add the following helper scripts to the `scripts` section of your `package.json`:

```json title="package.json"
"scripts": {
  "migrate": "dotenv -e .dev.vars -- npx prisma migrate dev",
	"generate": "dotenv -e .dev.vars -- npx prisma generate --no-engine",
	"studio": "dotenv -e .dev.vars -- npx prisma studio",
  // Additional worker scripts...
}
```

Run the migration script to apply changes to the database:

```sh
npm run migrate
```

> When prompted, provide a name for the migration (e.g., `init`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When prompted, provide a name for the migration (for example, `init`).
```

	DATABASE_URL: string;
}

export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		const path = new URL(request.url).pathname;
		if (path === "/favicon.ico")
			return new Response("Resource not found", {
				status: 404,
				headers: {
					"Content-Type": "text/plain",
				},
			});

		const prisma = new PrismaClient({
			datasourceUrl: env.DATABASE_URL,
		}).$extends(withAccelerate());

		const user = await prisma.user.create({
			data: {
				email: `Jon${Math.ceil(Math.random() * 1000)}@gmail.com`,
				name: "Jon Doe",
			},
		});

		const userCount = await prisma.user.count();

		return new Response(`\
Created new user: ${user.name} (${user.email}).
Number of users in the database: ${userCount}.
		`);
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

Run the development server:

```sh
npm run dev
```

Visit [`https://localhost:8787`](https://localhost:8787) to see your app display the following output:

```sh
Number of users in the database: 1
```

Every time you refresh the page, a new user is created. The number displayed will increment by `1` with each refresh as it returns the total number of users in your database.

## 4. Deploy the application to Cloudflare

> When the application is deployed to Cloudflare, it needs access to the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable that's defined locally in `.dev.vars`. You can use the [`npx wrangler secret put`](/workers/configuration/secrets/#adding-secrets-to-your-project) command to upload the `DATABASE_URL` to the deployment environment:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the application is deployed to Cloudflare, it needs access to the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable that is defined locally in `.dev.vars`. You can use the [`npx wrangler secret put`](/workers/configuration/secrets/#adding-secrets-to-your-project) command to upload the `DATABASE_URL` to the deployment environment:
```

```sh
npx wrangler secret put DATABASE_URL
```

When prompted, paste the `DATABASE_URL` value (from `.dev.vars`). If you're logged in via the Wrangler CLI, you'll see a prompt asking if you'd like to create a new Worker. Confirm by choosing "yes":

```sh
✔ There doesn't seem to be a Worker called "prisma-postgres-worker". Do you want to create a new Worker with that name and add secrets to it? … yes
```

Then execute the following command to deploy your project to Cloudflare Workers:

```sh
npm run deploy
```

The `wrangler` CLI will bundle and upload your application.

> If you’re not already logged in, the `wrangler` CLI will open a browser window prompting you to log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are not already logged in, the `wrangler` CLI will open a browser window prompting you to log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/).
```
